Character Issues

    A string is a sequence of characters.
    A character is "a unicode character":
        A character ID, aka "code point", is a number from 0 to 1,113,111 (base 10).
        4-6 hex digits with a U+ prefix.
    
    The actual bytes that represent these characters change on the encoding used.
        ex: A (U+0041) is encoded as a single byte \x41 in UTF-8, or bytes \x41\x00 in UTF-16LE.
        
    Converting code points to bytes is called encoding. 
    Converting from bytes to code points is called decoding.

Byte Essentials

    Two types of basic built in byte sequences:
        bytes - Immutable
        bytearray - Mutable

    Byte type objects have an integer value from 0-255.
    Slicing either object produces a new sequence of the same type.
    
    The notations used to represent byte objects:

        Decimal values 32 -> 126 - (blank space) to ~ - The literal ASCII character is used.
        Decimal values for tab, newline, carriage return, and \ - \t, \n, \r, \\ (respectively).
        When ' and " are both in the sequence, the whole sequence is delimited by '
            and any ' inside of it are escaped as \'
        All other byte values - hex-escaped sequence - ex: \x00 is the null byte.
        
    Binary sequences have the fromhex method not given to str types. 

    Can build byte types by calling their constructors:
        A str and an encoding keyword argument
        An iterable providing items with values from 0-255
        An object that implements the buffer protocol that copies bytes from the source
            to the new binary sequence.

Understanding Encode/Decode Problems

    Python bundles over 100 codecs and their aliases.

    Errors are usually specified to be encoding or decoding.
    Errors typically are raised when the character doesn't exist in the encoding you wish to switch to.

    Syntax errors typically occur after creating a file in windows cp1252 then opening on GNU/macos systems UTF-8.

    You cannot ask for the encoding type of a string. You must be told explicitly, or guess.
        ex: UTF-8 escape sequences never use ASCII, therefor random data is hardly valid
            by accident if any is correct after being decoded in  UTF-8.

        ex: When b'\x00' are common, it most likely implies UTF-16 or UTF-32, and not an 8-bit scheme.

    BOM: A Useful Gremlin

        BOM - Byte Order Marking. Used in a variety of encodings to establish big or little endian byte order. 
            ex: b'\xff\xfe' - big endian
                'E' - little endian

Handling Text Files  

    Best way to handle text files is with a unicode sandwich:

        bytes -> str - Decode bytes on input.
            Should be done as soon as text is needed to be used.
        100% str     - Process only text.
            Where the majority of processing should take place.
        str -> bytes - Encode text on output.
            As late as possible in the text processing.

        Do NOT decode or encode while processing data. This can result in multiple bugs.
            Errors can result from differing locales or operating systems.
            See examples.ipynb
        
        Code running on multiple machines should ALWAYS explicitly state the decoding/encoding settings.

    Beware of Encoding Defaults

        Encoding defaults are what standard Python installations force you to use, unless specified.

        If you omit the encoding argument, the default will be used by 
            locale.getprefferedencoding()
            sys.getdefaultencoding()
            sys.getfilesystemencoding()


        Windows has multiple encoding implementations depending on your usage.
            They also have encoding versions with different additional supported characters.
                ex: 'cp850' vs 'cp1252'

        Support for UTF-8 depends on the program, OS version, and supported characters.

        For instance, just because a character is recognized in windows doesn't mean that it's
            able to be displayed by the console.

    *** AVOID DEFAULT ENCODING ***

Normalizing Unicode for Reliable Comparisons

    String comparisons are complicated by Unicode's implementation of processing complex characters.

        Diacritics (things that go above / below a word) are attached the preceding character to
            appear as one.        

        These are called canonical equivalents.
            Although applications should treat them the same, python sees two different code sequences.

        See examples.ipynb

        This is resolved with unicodedata.normalize() which has four values for the first argument:
            NFC - Normalization Form C - Composes code to the shortest equivalent string.
                Keyboards are NFC by default, and is recommended by the W3C Organization.
                NFKC - A stronger form of NFC with increased compatibility.
            NFD - Normalization Form D - Decomposes code into it's base characters while
                                             separating combining characters.
                NFKD - A stronger form of NFD with increased compatibility.

    Case Folding

        Converting all text to lowercase, with some additional transformations.
        
        Any string containing only latin1 characters is equal to the .lower() function.
        Greek lowercase mu, and the German' Eszett become 'ss'.
    
    Utility Functions for Normalized Text Matching

        NFC and NFD are safe for unicode comparisons.
            NFC is the best normalized form for most applications.
        str.casefold() should be used for case insensitive applications.
    
    Extreme Normalization: Taking Out Diacritics

        Although sometimes used, removing diacritics is not a proper form of normalization.
            It can often change the meaning of some words, and will produce false positives.
            It can also account for lazy users who don't input the correct characters.
        
        Removing diacritics makes reading urls significantly easier.
            ex: URL for the Wikipedia article about the city of São Paulo
                https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S%C3%A3o_Paulo
    
        See examples.ipynb
    
Sorting Unicode Text

    For anyone using non-ASCII characters, comparing strings fails.

        See examples.ipynb

        A standard way to sort ASCII in Python is with locale.strxfrm.
        
        You must set a suitable locale for the application, and pray your OS supports it.

        You must call setlocale(LC_COLLATE, <<your_locale>>) before using locale.strxfrm

        The Caveats:

            Calling setlocale in the library is not recommended because the setting is global.
            The locale must be installed on the OS, otherwise locale.ERROR is raised.
            You must know how to spell the locale name.
            The locale must be implemented correctly by the OS creators. 

    Sorting with the Unicode Collation Algorithm

        The pyuca library provides an implementation of the UCA without taking into account
            the host systems locale.
            
        Also look at pyicu for a pyuca package that respects language specific alphabet sorting.  
        
        See examples.ipynb
        
The Unicode Database

    Finding Characters by Name

        The module unicodedata can retrieve character metadata, like unicodedata.name()

        See examples.ipynb
            Another example, cat emoji name -> "GRINNING CAT FACE WITH SMILE EYES"

    Numerical Meaning of Characters

        The module unicodedata can check if a Unicode character represents a number.
            If so, it can also interpret it to it's human-readable value.

        See examples.ipynb

Dual-Mode str and bytes APIs

    str Versus bytes in Regular Expressions

        If you build a regex with bytes, patterns like \d and \w only match ASCII characters.
        If you build them through a str, they match Unicode digits, characters, or letters outside of ASCII. 

    str Versus bytes in os Functions

        All os module functions that accept filenames or path-names accept str or bytes arguments.

        It will be automatically converted by sys.getfilesystemencoding(), and the OS
            response will be decoded with the same codec.
            You can pass bytes arguments for filenames that cannot be handled this way.

            ex: 'digits-of-n.txt' -> b'digits-of-\xcf\x80.txt' (\xcf\x80 returns the pi symbol)